=head1 README for jkeenan/scripts-misc

This repository contains publicly accessible programs I have written and which
are available under the terms (MIT license) described in the F<LICENSE> file.

These are executable programs written either in Perl 5 or Bourne-compatible
shell for the following purposes:

=over 4

=item *

Ongoing maintenance and development of the Perl 5 core distribution.

=item *

Presentations to open-source conferences and user group meetings.

=back

You should treat these programs as B<alpha> code and use accordingly.  I make
no claim that they are as polished or efficient as, for example, the libraries
I have released to L<CPAN|http://search.cpan.org/~/jkeenan/>.

=head1 PROGRAMS

=head2 Perl 5 Core Distribution Aids

=head3 C<get_cpanm>

=over 4

=item * Purpose

Installs CPAN-library installer F<cpanm> against a newly installed F<perl>.

=item * Prerequisites

F<wget(1)>.

=item * Usage

This program is installed automatically via F<install_branch_for_testing> in
this repository.  Once that program is run, change to the top-level of the
newly installed F<perl>.

    $> cd ~/testing/<my_branch>
    $> ./bin/cpanm List::Compare Text::CSV::Hashify <Other::CPAN::Module>

=item * Provenance

L<http://search.cpan.org/~miyagawa/Menlo-1.9005/script/cpanm-menlo> and 
adapted from Florian Ragwitz and Karl Williamson.

=back

=head3 C<get-test-smoke>

=over 4

=item * Purpose

Alternative F<Test-Smoke> configuration; get quickly set up to smoke-test the
Perl 5 core distribution.

=item * Prerequisites

=over 4

=item * CPAN libraries not found in Perl 5 core distribution

    $> cpan Perl::Download::FTP::Distribution \
        CGI::Util JSON JSON::XS System::Info \
        HTTP::Daemon HTTP::Message Test::NoWarnings

=item * Environmental Variables

The program presumes that your home directory can be located in an
environmental variable known as C<$HOMEDIR>.  If that is not the case, then
call:

    $> export HOMEDIR=/home/<username>

=back

=item * Usage

    $> export APPLICATION_DIR=/home/<username>/p5smoke
    $> ./get-test-smoke --application_dir=$APPLICATION_DIR
    $> cd $APPLICATION_DIR
    $> sh ./smokecurrent.sh

For more information:  F<perldoc get-test-smoke>.

=item * Provenance

L<Test-Smoke|http://search.cpan.org/dist/Test-Smoke/>.

=back

=head3 C<install_blead_for_testing>

Exactly equivalent to:

    $> install_branch_for_testing blead

See discussion of that program below.

=head3 C<install_branch_for_testing>

=over 4

=item * Purpose

Installs a branch of the Perl 5 core distribution for testing purposes,
then installs F<cpanm> against the newly installed F<perl>.  Useful in
assessing whether code in a branch might have a negative impact on CPAN
libraries.

=item * Prerequisites

=over 4

=item * Directories

Prior existence of two directories whose names are assigned to environmental
variables:

=over 4

=item * C<$TESTINGDIR>

A directory underneath which you will have directories such as F<blead>,
F<threaded_blead>, etc., each representing a particular build of F<perl>
Under each of the latter you will have F<bin> and F<lib>.  Example:

    $> mkdir /home/<username>/testing/
    $> export TESTINGDIR=/home/<username>/testing  # place in .bashrc or .shrc

=item * C<$SECONDARY_CHECKOUT_DIR>

A F<git> checkout of the Perl 5 core distribution.  This is labelled
I<"secondary"> in the belief that you will not want to risk harm to the F<git>
checkout you use for everyday Perl 5 core development.  Example:

    $> cd /home/<username>/gitwork
    $> git clone git://perl5.git.perl.org/perl.git perl2
    $> export SECONDARY_CHECKOUT_DIR=/home/<username>/gitwork/perl2

=back

=item * Other environmental variables

=over 4

=item * C<$TEST_JOBS>

An integer such as 4 or 8, appropriate to the number of cores in your machine,
which will determine how many jobs F<make> will attempt to run in parallel.

=back

=item * Other items in PATH

=over 4

=item * F<git(1)>

=item * F<make(1)>

=item * F<get_cpanm> (in this repository)

=back

=back

=item * Usage

    $> install_branch_for_testing <branch>

If no value is provided for C<branch>, program will default to installing
C<blead>.

=item * Provenance

Adapted from Florian Ragwitz and Karl Williamson.

=back

=head2 Conference Presentation Aids

=head3 C<multipandoc>

=over 4

=item * Purpose

Convert POD into F<.pdf>, F<.html>, F<.txt> and F<.odt> files simultaneously.

=item * Prerequisites

=over 4

=item * F<pandoc(1)>

A general markup converter documented at L<http://pandoc.org>.  Install with
your operating system's ports installer.

=item * F<Pod::Pandoc(3)>

CPAN distribution L<Pod-Pandoc|http://search.cpan.org/dist/Pod-Pandoc/>, which
provides utility F<pod2pandoc(1)>.

=back

=item * Usage

    multipandoc \
      --sourcedir=/home/<username>/p5-codebase-health \
      --podfile=p5-codebase-health.pod \
      --outputdir=/home/<username>/tmp \
      --stub=p5-codebase-health \
      --verbose

For more information:  F<perldoc multipandoc>.

=back

=cut

